Aid groups are warning of
an imminent public health crisis in Gaza
if supplies of water and fuel remain
cut off.
CNN's Thelma Abdul-Aziz has more on
the growing desperation inside Gaza.
And a warning
some images in her report are graphic
This is what life looks like in places.
Israel told families to flee towards
for their safety, where constant
bombardment has reduced homes to rubble
and wiped out entire families.
The survivors say,
I lost all my relatives.
15 people, this man says.
We were not on the front line or anything.
We were just sitting at home.
What have we done wrong?
The U.N.
warns there are no safe places.
About half a million
people fled here to southern Gaza
after an evacuation order
by the Israeli military But families
desperate for refuge
are still trapped in the war zone.
The dead and injured flooding
a health care system on the brink.
Civilians are caught in the crossfire.
With the death toll mounting,
just over a quarter of those
killed are children,
according to Palestinian officials.
And a
week long siege is strangling the enclave,
the U.N.
says, amid fears food, fuel, water
and medical supplies may soon run out.
Some 2 million
people are crammed into this.
140 square mile territory.
Now, many of them pushed into
an even smaller corner of the enclave.
About half the population are children.
There are not enough shelters to house
the sheer number of civilians
and even those who do find spaces
in overwhelmed schools
turned refugee centers.
It is little comfort
to the youngest victims.
For Shadi Hamid.
There is no one to protect us.
This little girl says
there's no one to come save us.
How are we supposed to live?
How? Answer me.
Prime Minister
Netanyahu has vowed to annihilate Hamas
after a terror attack by the group left.
1400 killed in Israel.
But with Hamas so deeply embedded within
Gaza's population, rights groups
fear a bloodbath.
What we're seeing right now, the direction
that Israel is going to be is going in.
They have said they want to destroy Hamas,
but their current trajectory
is going to destroy Gaza.
Hamas
does not answer to the people of Gaza.
No elections have been held here
since the group seized power in 2007.
Still, it is these residents
that will pay the price.
And with a potential ground
incursion expected
not cost is unfathomable.
Some Abdel Aziz, CNN, London.
Joining me now from Tel Aviv is Jonathan
Conricus, international spokesperson
for the Israel Defense Forces.
Colonel, good to see they can be with us.
Good morning. Thank you for having me.
It's a pleasure, sir.
I wonder if you could just
comment on a report we've just received
from Palestinian sources within Gaza
that there were Israeli airstrikes
around the Rafah crossing in the south,
killing at least 28 people.
Also,
airstrikes in the region of Khan Yunis,
which, as you know, is in the center
of Gaza.
These are all areas which the Israelis
urge the Palestinians to head towards,
to be out of danger for Israeli operations
that were taking place in the north.
What more can you tell us
about those airstrikes in the south?
Yes, the combat operations continue.
We continue to hunt Hamas operatives
to attempt to degrade
their military capabilities, whereabouts
locations, tunnels and rocket launchers
and of course, other things that are part
of this war that has been forced upon us.
And I am not aware of any strike
specifically
in those areas,
but they could have happened.
And anyhow, we continue to operate
and strike Hamas targets
as we have defined before.
And we try to do that
according to the law of armed conflict.
And, of course, to minimize
civilian casualties.
And just as we have
you talked about Rafah,
what is the situation
there as far as you know,
with regards to that border crossing?
Actually, being open so that all the
trucks on the Egyptian side of the border,
trucks filled with humanitarian
assistance, will be allowed into Gaza
because right now the people's lives
are counting on that aid being delivered
Yes, I know that an attempt.
First of all,
I am aware of lots of discussions, report
and quite a lot of conflicting information
about that.
And sorry to say,
I don't have clarity myself.
The only thing I can say
is that the last attempt that I am
aware of that we were involved
in was three days ago
when there was an attempt to evacuate
foreign nationals, Americans and others,
which failed
because Hamas refused to open the gate.
Other than that,
I don't have any updates on the situation.
We understand the complexity and perhaps
there will be news later in the day
about the Rafah and about other issues
pertaining to humanitarian needs.
Confusion in war,
I guess comes with the territory, sir,
but we appreciate
whatever you can do to clarify.
We've just had the news as well
on on Monday that the US President
Joe Biden will visit Israel on Wednesday.
There is an imminent ground
operation in Gaza.
Does the President's visit to Israel,
does that complicate or delay
that ground incursion in any way?
Not as far as I understand.
And I think what I understand
from public statements,
the statements made by Secretary Blinken,
the president is here to show his support
for Israel and that he stands with Israel,
our right to defend ourselves.
And, of course, any
enhancement of our operations
is part of our right to defend ourselves.
I think the president also said
that the Hamas
needs to be destroyed,
and that is exactly our military aim.
We want to dismantle Hamas and make sure
that never again will any terrorist
organization in Gaza have the ability
to perform the atrocities that Hamas did.
On the 7th of October.
With regards to
the military operations and the exodus
from the north of Gaza to the south
that we're just talking about months ago,
that did seem fairly clear
message to Hamas
that a big operation was on its way.
Can you say how long and specifically
where these operations will take place
in the north around the Gaza City,
and what are the risks facing
those who stayed in that area?
And is there a danger of telegraphing
your punches,
if you like, to Hamas militants?
What's coming down the line?
Yeah, three good questions in one lesson.
It is generally not wise for a military
to be advertising its intentions.
And we are aware of the fact that we have
just advertised our intentions
by telling civilians
in northern Gaza to go south.
Why have we done that?
Because we want civilians out of fighting
and we don't want them to be killed.
So there is a balance here
between achieving a military objective
and minimizing civilian damage.
And in this case, which is very evident
and you cannot argue with it.
We have chosen to
you know,
that the sanctity of life
and the helping Palestinian civilians
to go south and not be stuck in an area
that there will be significant
combat activities.
There is a risk
and we will have to mitigate this risk
with the tactics, the weapons and the time
that we use when a knife will operate.
And there is tremendous,
you know, desire in Israel
to see Hamas defeated, to see the scourge
and the terror gone from Gaza.
But Israelis, of course,
also want the IDF to operate it smartly
and in a way that doesn't
expose our troops to undue danger
in an environment that already is among
the most dangerous on any battlefield.
And very quickly, one of the other reasons
why President Biden
is coming to the region, coming to Israel,
and the secretary state, Antony
Blinken, has been there is concerned
that this this conflict with Hamas
in Gaza could spread
and erupt into a much bigger
regional confrontation with actors.
For Iran, in particular, warning of,
you know,
if there are any more Palestinian
civilians who are killed,
if this continues, that
there will be consequences for Israel.
What's what's your response to that?
Well, I read it the same way.
I mean, I see that President Biden
and Secretary Blinken and many
American statements are made exactly
in order to prevent a regional escalation.
The common denominator
or let's say the reason or the power
that could escalate the Middle East
into regional escalation is Iran.
They have their tentacles.
They have their proxy organizations around
Israel, Hezbollah in the north, Hamas,
Islamic Jihad in the south,
and lots of proxies in Syria and Iraq.
And if they decide so,
then maybe they would want to
throw more of their properties
towards Israel.
That would be unwise and definitely not
something that would serve the interests
of the people of the region.
Maybe it would serve Iranian interests,
but definitely
not the people of the region.
And I think that's a very strong message
that the U.S.
is delivering to Iran.
If you're thinking about doing it, don't.
What we are saying is we are prepared
along our northern border in the south,
whoever threatens us
and whoever challenges
our safety and security of our civilians,
we will defend
and we will make sure that they don't
have the ability to do so.
Colonel Corica,
thanks so much for being with us.
We appreciate your time.
Thank you. Good morning.